docs/routing/bird/bird.md, before:

Configuring Bird2
=================

We now need to configure the routing daemon for your router which will allow you to
exchange routes with other routers over the tunnels you will setup later. This is at
the core of what makes CRXN an inter-network. 

The software we use for this procedure is known as BIRD or _BIRD Internet Routing Daemon_,
of which there are two versions:

1. Bird 1.6
2. Bird 2

You can use Bird 1.6 but you are on your own then in terms of configuration, the syntax
differs slightly but we recommend (and for the rest of this document we will be) using
Bird 2 as it comes with many bug fixes and improvements and most distributions (including Debian)
now have support for it.

## Installation

In order to install the BIRD daemon on your machine you should look for a package named `bird2` or something
similar (some repositories name it slightly differently - such as _just_ `bird`). On a Debian-based system you
can use:

```bash
sudo apt install bird2 -y
``` 

You can confirm that the version of BIRD you installed is version 2 with the command `bird -v`.

Commit message:

Added instructions to make BIRD start on boot

docs/routing/bird/bird.md, after:

Configuring Bird2
=================

We now need to configure the routing daemon for your router which will allow you to
exchange routes with other routers over the tunnels you will setup later. This is at
the core of what makes CRXN an inter-network. 

The software we use for this procedure is known as BIRD or _BIRD Internet Routing Daemon_,
of which there are two versions:

1. Bird 1.6
2. Bird 2

You can use Bird 1.6 but you are on your own then in terms of configuration, the syntax
differs slightly but we recommend (and for the rest of this document we will be) using
Bird 2 as it comes with many bug fixes and improvements and most distributions (including Debian)
now have support for it.

## Installation

In order to install the BIRD daemon on your machine you should look for a package named `bird2` or something
similar (some repositories name it slightly differently - such as _just_ `bird`). On a Debian-based system you
can use:

```bash
sudo apt install bird2 -y
```

You can confirm that the version of BIRD you installed is version 2 with the command `bird -v`. If that shows the correct version number then continue to the next step:

```bash
sudo systemctl enable --now bird
```

This will ensure that the routing daemon starts on boot.
